---
layout: featured 
title:  "Responding to Oil Spills in the U.S. Arctic Marine Environment"
date:   2014-11-25 16:54:46
author: "Committee on Responding to Oil Spills in the U.S. Arctic Marine Environment; Ocean Studies Board; Polar Research Board; Division of Life and Earth Studies; Marine Board; Transportation Research Board; National Research Council"
categories:
- featured
---
"U.S. Arctic waters north of the Bering Strait and west of the Canadian border
encompass a vast area that is usually ice covered for much of the year, but is
increasingly experiencing longer periods and larger areas of open water due to
climate change. Sparsely inhabited with a wide variety of ecosystems found
nowhere else, this region is vulnerable to damage from human activities. As oil
and gas, shipping, and tourism activities increase, the possibilities of an oil
spill also increase. How can we best prepare to respond to such an event in
this challenging environment?

Responding to Oil Spills in the U.S. Arctic Marine Environment reviews the
current state of the science regarding oil spill response and environmental
assessment in the Arctic region north of the Bering Strait, with emphasis on
the potential impacts in U.S. waters. This report describes the unique
ecosystems and environment of the Arctic and makes recommendations to provide
an effective response effort in these challenging conditions. According to
Responding to Oil Spills in the U.S. Arctic Marine Environment, a full range of
proven oil spill response technologies is needed in order to minimize the
impacts on people and sensitive ecosystems. This report identifies key oil
spill research priorities, critical data and monitoring needs, mitigation
strategies, and important operational and logistical issues.

The Arctic acts as an integrating, regulating, and mediating component of the
physical, atmospheric and cryospheric systems that govern life on Earth. Not
only does the Arctic serve as regulator of many of the Earth's large-scale
systems and processes, but it is also an area where choices made have
substantial impact on life and choices everywhere on planet Earth. This
report's recommendations will assist environmentalists, industry, state and
local policymakers, and anyone interested in the future of this special region
to preserve and protect it from damaging oil spills." -- National Academies
Press
